# Köppen for Azgaar
[Azgaar](https://github.com/Azgaar) is an absolute legend, and his
[Fantasy Map Generator](https://github.com/Azgaar/Fantasy-Map-Generator)
is one of the most amazing worldbuilding tools available today.
But there is no such thing as a perfect
tool for all situations, and
[Köppen climate classification](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/K%C3%B6ppen_climate_classification)
is a perfect example. Azgaar has said that
[he has no plans to implement Köppen climate classification](https://www.reddit.com/r/FantasyMapGenerator/comments/ra1rs5/any_plans_to_implement_a_koppen_climate_simulation/),
and honestly, that sounds like a perfectly
reasonable decision. He says that the
system he uses now (based on Whittaker),
“is clear for most users,” and I have no
reason to doubt that. Köppen climate
classifications would require a huge
increase in complexity and it isn’t
clear that most users would even notice
or care. Worse, it could make the whole
generator more complicated and difficult
to use, to very little benefit. I’m not
here to second-guess Azgaar’s decision
on this.

But _I_ want a more realistic climate
model for _my_ world, with fluctuating
monthly temperature and precipitation
levels that will allow me to distinguish
monsoon climates from Mediterranean
climates and so on. And you’re here
reading this, so maybe you want something
like that, too? So rather than just run
it for myself, I’m making my work public
for any other weirdos like me who want
to generate a map with Azgaar but then
apply a more realistic climate model to it.

These scripts:

1. Extract data from the full JSON export of your map (generated by Azgaar).
2. Calculates _raw temperature_ per month, per cell based solely on solar radiation, whether it's land or water, and the previous month’s temperature.
3. Calculates _diffused temperature_ per month, per cell by having each cell affected by its neighbors.
4. Calculates areas of _high and low atmospheric pressure_ on a per month basis based on temperature.
5. Calculates _prevailing wind direction and intensity_ per month, per cell based on atmospheric pressure.
6. Calculates _ocean currents_ per month, per marine cell based on prevailing winds.
7. Calculates _real temperature_ per month, per cell based on diffused temperature, winds, and ocean currents.
8. Calculates _precipitation_ per month, per cell by running a simulation of clouds forming, picking up moisturing, being driven by winds, and releasing moitsure according to atmospheric pressure and surface elevation (creating effects like rain shadows and monsoons).
9. Calculates the _Köppen climate classification_ for each cell based on monthly temperature and precipitation values.
